Rai University Brochure - Reconstructed Text
AHMEDABAD'S BEST TECHNO CAMPUS

TECHNOLOGY PARTNER - CODING PRO 



--- PAGE BREAK ---

About Us
Rai University was established under the Gujarat Private Universities (Amendment) Act No. 12 and is recognized by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the Bar Council of India (BCI) and the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). The University is accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Committed to outcome based, industry aligned and research-driven education in line with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Rai University emphasizes innovation, entrepreneurship and global competencies to prepare graduates as responsible professionals, leaders, and change-makers in their fields.

Vision
To produce professional graduates and responsible citizens to serve the changing needs of the nation and the world.

Mission

To promote learner centric perspective by strengthening and providing facilities, resources to facilitate quality education.
 To enrich learners' skills for lifelong learning and professional ethics.
 To build-up collaboration with corporate industry for advanced learning and promote innovative practices.
Recognitions, Approvals & Accreditation
* University Grants Commission (UGC) 
* Education Department, Government of Gujarat 
* National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) 
* Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) 
* Association of Indian Universities (AIU) 
* Bar Council of India (BCI




Silent Features
* Futuristic Programs 
* Collaborative Learning 
* Industry Adoption 
* International Exposure 
* Experienced Faculty 
* Incubation Support System 
* Tech-Enabled Campus 
* Research Facility 
* Placement Preparation Suite 
* Learning Ecosystem

--- PAGE BREAK ---
HONOURS & ACHIEVEMENTS
* Accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). 
* Collaboration with TATA IIS and ADS Foundation for: 
* Skill Development Programs 
* Faculty Development Programs 
* Short-Term & Long-Term Internship Programs 
* Placement Support 
* Industry-Led Programs 
* Authorized Microsoft Certification Centre. 
* 3-Star Rating by Gujarat State Institutional Rating Framework (GSIRF) - 2022, 2023 & 2025. 
* 3-Star Rating from Institution's Innovation Council (IIC), Ministry of Education, Government of India - 2021-22, 2022-23 & 2023-24. 
* Ranked Best Private University in Skill Development and Placement at the Maha-Sanman 2023 by Zee 24 Kalak. 
* Ranked Best Private University in Teaching Excellence at the Time Education Icon Awards 2021 by Times Group. 
* Recognized by National Community Engagement Academic Network (NCEAN) - 2024. 
* ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 Certified University.

Eminent Speakers @ RU
?  Shri Acharya Devvrat 
?  Shri Jitubhai Vaghani 
?  Smt. Anandiben Patel 
?  Shri Bhupendrasinh Chudasama 
?  Shri Anil Pratham (IPS) 
?  Dr. Pradyuman Vaja 
?  Dr. Chandan Chatterjee 
?  Dr. Viranchi Shah 
?  Karen Duys 
?  Martin Farek 
?  Bodil Valero 
?  Dr. Bohdan Linda 
?  Dr. Miloslav Hus 
?  Dr. Ioannis Poulios 
?  and other distinguished national and international leaders.
.



--- PAGE BREAK ---
AI-DRIVEN LEARNING ENHANCES STUDENTS' GROWTH

FOUNDATION
• Virtual Labs: Practice with lab simulations,
• 24/7 Access: Always stay areas and nurture strong connected.
• Practical Exposure: Learn hands-on innovative skills,

INTERMEDIATE
• New Skills: Learn diverse set of skills,
• Understanding Industry :Learn what industry wants, 
• Evaluation: Improve weak ones.

FINAL
• Internships:
Professional Internships
at every stage,
• Placement Preparation:
Industry Speci?c
Modules, practice and
prep. tests,
• Job-Ready: Con?dence
and skill-building.

4 PILLARS OF EXCELLENCE
1. Institute of Eminence and Technological Temperament
Led by IIT-IIM Graduates on a mission to bring the ?nest teaching material, methods and technology on par with top IITs and Ivy Leagues.
2. Learning Beyond Classrooms and Extra Curricular Growth
Holistic development through sports, cultural events, clubs and leadership activities.
3. Entrepreneurship and Start-up Spirit
 Established incubators to nurture entrepreneurial initiatives and comprehensive knowledge systems to foster ideas and execution.
4. Holistic Training and Placement Support
Industry-aligned training, internships and placement assistance through strong corporate partnerships


--- PAGE BREAK ---

360° SUPPORT SYSTEM
Education Encompasses Three Key Aspects
Academics
Curriculum design, instructional methods, and academic policies for quality education.
Technology
Integration of modern technologies and digital learning platforms to enhance student engagement and practical understanding.
Evaluation
Continuous assessment of student performance for comprehensive skill development and career readiness.

Academic Excellence
A well-structured curriculum, innovative instructional methods, and transparent academic policies ensure effective learning.

Technological Integration
Modern digital tools, AI-enabled platforms, and collaborative technologies enhance engagement and experiential learning.

Evaluation & Skill Development
Continuous assessments, progress tracking, and performance evaluation help students develop practical skills and holistic growth.

HOW WE'VE BUILT OUR INSTITUTE OF EXCELLENCE
* AI-Enabled Personalized Learning 
* Comprehensive Career & Placement Support 
* Cutting-Edge Research & Innovation Facilities 
* Industry-Aligned Skill Development Programs



--- PAGE BREAK ---
RAI SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING 
Rai School of Engineering focuses on producing industry-ready engineers through project-based learning, internships, research exposure and innovation-driven education. The School actively promotes hackathons, Startup culture, industry certifications and Centres of Excellence in collaboration with leading organizations.

Diploma / C2D    Duration : 6/4 Semesters

Mechanical Engineering Electives :
Automobile Engineering for EV
Powerplant Engineering

Information Technology Electives :
Machine Learning
Data Analysis and Visualization

Computer Engineering Electives :
Machine Learning
Data Analysis and Visualization

Diploma            Duration : 6 Semesters

Electrical Engineering Electives :
Power System
Power Electronics

B.Tech.             Duration : 8 Semesters

Computer Science Engineering Specializations :
Full Stack Development
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning

D2D                Duration : 6 Semesters
Computer Science Engineering Specializations :
Full Stack Development
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning

D2D                 Duration : 6 Semesters

Information Technology Specialization :
Data Science
BCA (Hons.)           Duration : 8 Semesters

Electives :
Machine Learning
Blockchain

BCA (Hons.)         Duration : 8 Semesters
Specialization :
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Data Science

MCA                      Duration : 4 Semesters
Electives :
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Cyber Security

Integrated MCA        Duration : 10 Semesters
Specialization :
Data Science
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning

B.Sc. (Hons.)            Duration : 8 Semesters
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Cyber Security and Cloud Technology
Data Science

B.Sc. (Hons.)     Duration : 8 Semesters
Information Technology   Electives :
Arti?cial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Cyber Security

M.Sc.                  Duration : 4 Semesters
Cyber Security and Cloud Technology

Ph.D.
Computer Science and Engineering,
Information Technology,
Computer Application



--- PAGE BREAK ---


RAI SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT STUDIES
The industry-focused undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral programs offered by Rai School of Management Studies are designed to develop future -ready  managers , leaders and entrepreneurs. The School emphasizes experiential learning through case studies , real - world projects , internships, industry mentoring and entrepreneurship development. Aligned with the vision of Aatma nirbhar Bharat, the School actively fosters innovation, Startup and leadership

BBA (Hons.)                 Duration : 8 Semesters

Specializations :
Sales and Digital Marketing
Applied HR
Fintech
Arti?cial Intelligence and Business Analytics
Entrepreneurship and Innovation

B.Com (Hons.)     Duration : 8 Semesters
Specialization :
Accounting and Finance
Arti?cial Intelligence and Fintech

Integrated MBA        Duration : 10 Semesters

Specialization :
Arti?cial Intelligence and Business Analytics

MBA                      Duration : 4 Semesters

Specializations :
Human Resources
Finance
Marketing
Entrepreneurship and Family Business
Business Analytic and Fintech

Ph.D.
Management

SCHOOL OF PHARMACY 
The School of Pharmacy is dedicated to e xc e l l e n c e i n p h a r m a c e u t i c a l education, research and professional practice. It aims to develop competent pharmacists and researchers with strong scientific expertise and ethical values, committed to advancing healthcare and improving quality of life.
D.Pharm.    Duration : 2 Years
B.Pharm. / D2D    Duration : 8/6 Semesters
M.Pharm.    Duration : 4 Semesters
Specializations :
Pharmaceutics
Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance

Ph.D.
Pharmaceutical Sciences

SCHOOL OF LAW
Legal education at Rai University goes beyond the classroom, emphasizing practical training, experiential learning and professional skill development. The curriculum is designed to build strong foundations in legal knowledge, advocacy, drafting, research and ethical practice, preparing students for successful careers in the legal profession.

B.A. LLB    Duration : 10 Semesters
B.B.A. LLB  Duration : 10 Semesters
LL.B       Duration : 6 Semesters
LL.M      Duration : 4 Semesters
Specializations :
Constitutional and Administrative Law
Corporate and Commercial Law
Criminal and Security Law

Ph.D.
Law



--- PAGE BREAK ---

RAI SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
Rai School of Agriculture is committed to advancing education and research in agricultural and allied sciences, with a strong focus on sustainability, scientific farming practices and modern agricultural technologies. The School contributes to national development and food security. Students benefit from a rigorous academic curriculum combined with hands-on training, research exposure and extensive field based learning.
B.Sc. (Hons.)     Duration : 8 Semesters
Agriculture


RAI SCHOOL OF SCIENCES
Rai School of Sciences provides an interdisciplinary approach to its students. It is committed to excel knowledge in pure sciences, building a strong foundation for further academic pursuits in science and technology. The School is committed to meet the latest scientific advancements and envisions to become the pioneer in providing quality education and exposure to cutting edge interdisciplinary research.


B.Sc. ( Hons.)      Duration : 8 Semesters
Chemistry
Microbiology

M.Sc.                      Duration : 4 Semesters
Chemistry
Specializations :
Industrial Chemistry
Organic Chemistry
Analytical Chemistry

M.Sc.              Duration : 4 Semesters
Microbiology

M.Sc.               Duration : 4 Semesters
Pharmaceutical Chemistry

RAI SCHOOL OF DESIGN
Rai School of Design offers a creative and industry -oriented learning environment that blends artistic vision with technical expertise. The School prepares students for professional careers in design through studio-based learning, projects and exposure to contemporary trends.
B.Design   Duration : 8 Semesters
Specialization :
Fashion



RAI SCHOOL OF LIBERAL STUDIES
Rai School of Liberal Studies promotes critical thinking, interdisciplinary learning and intellectual curiosity. The School emphasizes the integration of theory, research and practical application, with a strong focus on ethics and social responsibility 
B.A. ( Hons.)       Duration : 8 Semesters
Psychology

B.Sc. ( Hons.)      Duration : 8 Semesters
Psychology

UNIVERSITY LEARNING PLATFORM
• No Internet Required: Allows complete access to courses, lectures, notes, and quizzes o?ine, ensuring learning never stops due to poor connectivity.
• Uninterrupted Study Experience: Enables learners to continue preparing for exams and placements anytime, anywhere, without worrying about network issues.
OFFLINE MODE ADVANTAGES
• Seamless Learning: Students continue learning without the internet
• Data Sync: Automatically syncs progress once online
• Accessibility: Ideal for regions with poor connectivity
• Consistency: No disruption in teaching schedules
• Flexibility: Works on desktops and laptops



--- PAGE BREAK ---

SMART CLASSROOM AND DIGITAL DELIVERY
Smart Classroom and Learning centres facilitates real-time support by utilizing multimedia tools to make lessons interactive and engaging. Concepts are personalized to improve understanding, boost motivation, and support students success.

WEBSITE AND LEARNING APP
The AI-enabled platform is designed to students' learning experience through dedicated website portal, tailored to enhance students engagement and academic success. Students can access all learning resources and assistive tools, track their progress and manage academic record

DASHBOARD AND ANALYTICS
The Dashboard and Analytics system provides a complete view of learning progress and performance trends. 
It tracks progress, daily streaks, and achievements across all modules in real time by leveraging AI.  
Detailed analytics highlight strengths and weak areas for improvement. 
This insight-driven approach keeps learners motivated and focused on continuous growth.

3D MODELS
Interactive 3D Models: Understand complex concepts with life like visualizations. 
Holobox: Experience guest lectures, seminars from renowned personalities in real-time holographic projections. 
Seamless Integration: Accessible via web or physical display units. 
Immersive Learning: Enhanced focus on practical skills for every discipline when students practice instead of just learning theory.


--- PAGE BREAK ---

CORPORATE RESOURCE CELL
The Corporate Resource Cell facilitates training, internships, and placement opportunities by building strong linkages between industry and academia. Through resume-building workshops, mock interviews, aptitude training, and career guidance, the Cell prepares students for professional success. Regular industry interactions, guest lectures, and expert talks further enhance students' employability and career readiness.
Activities
* Campus Recruitment 
* Career Orientation 
* Industrial Visits 
* Soft Skills Training 
* Industry Meet 
* Expert Talk
CENTRE FOR RESEARCH AND INNOVATION
The Centre for Research and Innovation provides a vibrant ecosystem for interdisciplinary research and doctoral studies in accordance with UGC regulations.
The University regularly organizes national and international conferences, workshops, and faculty development programmes to foster a strong research culture.
The research work and doctoral thesis of the University's scholars are recognized and published by the Association of Indian Universities (AIU).
Research scholars and alumni are placed in reputed academic, industrial, and government organizations in India and abroad.


--- PAGE BREAK ---

SSIP CELL
Rai University supports innovation and entrepreneurship in line with the Government of Gujarat's Student Startup and Innovation Policy (SSIP).
The Cell provides support for:
* Proof-of-Concept (PoC) Development 
* Startup Incubation 
* Intellectual Property (IP) Creation 
* Innovation Challenges 
* Startup Initiatives 
* Hackathons 
In recognition of its innovation ecosystem, the Rai University student team received the Summer Innovation Challenge Award for the project "Treadmill Bicycle Walk to Speed" from the Honourable former Chief Minister of Gujarat Shri Vijay Rupani and the Honourable former Education Minister Shri Bhupendrasinh Chudasama.

STUDENT CLUBS
* EVOLVE - the academic club 
* REET - the cultural club 
* Warrior - the sports club  
* Prayatan - a csr initiative 


EVENTS @ RU
?  Cultural Events 
?  Technical Events 
?  Annual Functions 
?  Student Competitions 
?  Workshops 
?  Sports Activities 
?  Award Ceremonies 
?  Campus Celebrations 
AI Enabled Placement Suit
The platform provides unlimited access to realistic placement simulations modeled after the hiring processes of top companies like Google and Microsoft.
From aptitude tests to technical interviews, every module mirrors real hiring scenarios to boost students' confidence and improve career readiness.

Top Recruiters
The brochure displays logos of recruiters including (visible in the image):
* Reliance 
* Coca-Cola 
* Dabur 
* KSB 
* Honda 
* Hitachi 
* Capital First 
* Tech Mahindra 
* HCG Hospitals 
* Adani 
* Tata 
* Shalby Hospitals 
* Intas 
* Alembic 
* Zydus 
* Torrent 
* HDFC Bank 
* AU Small Finance Bank 
* Axis Bank 
* Wagh Bakri 
* TBEA 
* Veegas 
* Aspire 
* NTT DATA 
* and many more. 

Contact Us
Rai University
Address:
SH-144, Village Saroda, Taluka Dholka,
District Ahmedabad, Gujarat - 382260
Phone:
+91 89 8000 4325
Email:
info@raiuniversity.edu
Website:
www.raiuniversity.edu

